# Automated API Tests

#### **Overview:**
The purpose of this project is to create a solution that executes the automated API tests requested in the technical test. It was developed
using Java, Maven, Rest Assured, and Docker. Also, Cucumber was used to create the test cases following the Behavior Driven Development Testing approach.

#### **Technologies Used:**
* Maven: Project management and build tool.
* Java: Programming language used for test automation.
* Rest Assured: Java based library used to execute and validate REST APIs.
* Docker: Tool used to build, share, and run container applications.
* Cucumber: Tool that supports Behavior Driven Development

#### **Prerequisites:**
Ensure the following tools are installed on your machine:
* Java JDK (version 17 or higher)
* Maven
* Docker


#### **Project Structure:**
* **src/test/java:** Java source code for test classes.
* **src/test/resources:** Features and config files.
* **.github/workflows/main.yml:** GitHub Action definition file.
* **pom.xml:** Maven project object model file.
* **Dockerfile:** Dockerfile to build the container where the tests will run.
* **reports:** Reports folder.
* **data:** Output folder.
* **logs:** Logs generated by test execution.

#### **Running the tests:**
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ocalderin/capitole-api-tests.git
```
2. Move to the folder that contains the automated tests code

3. Execute the tests

You can run your test using Maven or Docker

### **Maven Execution** ###

**All the tests**
```bash
mvn clean test
```

**By feature**
```bash
mvn clean test -Dtest=com.capitole.apitests.runners.RunnerApiTests
```

### **Docker Execution** ###
```bash
docker build -t capitole-api-tests .
docker run -v ./reports:/app/reports -v ./data:/app/data capitole-api-tests
```

#### **Reporting:**
When the execution finishes a report file with the test results is generated
at this path **reports/cucumber-report/api-report.html**

Also, the all the output requested by the technical test is saved in the **data** folder

#### **GitHub Actions:**
Additionally, you can also run the automated tests on GitHub, using GitHub Actions. To do that:
1. Go to https://github.com/ocalderin/capitole-api-tests
2. Click on the Actions button   
3. Select the **Running Web Automated Tests** workflow
4. Run the workflow by clicking on the Run workflow button and then selecting the branch (main is used by default), and then clicking on the Run workflow button (green button)
5. Select the running workflow
6. Select the running job

In this screen you will be able to see all the logs related to your workflow execution

The output data and the report generated by the test execution will be ready to download on the Summary screen
1. Click on the Summary button
2. Download the artifacts

**This GitHub Action is also executed automatically when you push any change on the main branch**
   
